# Background

Generally, the increase in suicide rate is related to age, whereas, its impact varies fromcountry to country (Shah 2007). In addition to age, Hawton (2000) pointed out that suiciderates of female are distinct from male’s. Although the suicide risk for men is higher thanwomen, Poreddiet al.(2016) argued that men were more optimistic because they believedthat suicide is avertable. Therefore, gender differences need to be considered when buildmodels to reduce suicide rate

Moreover, suicide behaviour between women and men is different. Men tend to choosemore lethal modes which lead to higher fatality than women (Cibisaet al.2012). One of the high risk methods is firearms. Because of the distinctively high mortality rate fromthis type of suicide, firearms are taken into account. And globally, the mortality fromfirearms is extremely high in the United States, Brazil, Mexico, Colombia, and Venezuela(Naghavi 2018). The deaths from suicide by firearm are impacted by the strength of lawsand regulations controlling firearms in different countries. Due to the access to firearms iseasier in the United States and South America, the suicide by firearm rates may appearclusters in this region.

Furthermore, the mental illnesses are associated with various negative outcomes, includingsuicide risk. Cougleet al.(2009) emphasized the importance of early anxiety disorders detection and treatment that contribute to lessening suicide risk. Additionally, suicide risk will also be generated by depression, which is the most common mental health problemamong suicide people (Hawtonet al.2013). Another social factor that affect suicide rate is alcohol consumption. S.Boenischaet al.(2010) suggested that the regular part of clinicalassessment in people with alcohol disorder should be screened for suicidality. And the suiciderisk for people is relevant to their financial conditions. For example, suicide attempters aremost likely to be unemployment (Chooet al.2019). Fountoulakiset al.(2014) showed that there is an increasing trend of suicide rate before the economic crisis. Since neighbouringcountries share more similar culture and social behaviour, they may also have similar suiciderate. For example, Islam prohibits alcohol consumption, which leads to its low prevalencein Muslim countries (Al-Ansariet al.2016). Due to religious reasons, the suicide rate in these countries may be reduced by the low alcohol disorders rate. And suicide is still illegal in some countries, especially in East Africa (L.Misharaet al.2016). Therefore, the suicide rate may appear clusters in the world.

# Aim

This work attempts to discover whether any clusters exist and to seek how these factors affect the suicide rate spatially. First is to analyse the suicidal differences between women and men by exploring the demographic data of suicide age and sex. Since men tend to use more lethal suicide methods. Apart from the data of age and sex, the suicide behaviour model also considers the effect of suicide by firearm. By regarding the mental issues andeconomic environment will also affect the suicide rate, the second model is to investigate how the social and economic factors affect the suicide rate, which includes the socio-economic and demographic variables.
